
Drand (pronounced "dee-rand") is a distributed randomness beacon daemon
written in <a href="https://golang.org/">Golang</a>.
</p>

<p align="center">
Linked drand nodes collectively produce <strong>publicly verifiable</strong>,
<strong>unbiased</strong> and <strong>unpredictable</strong> random values at
fixed intervals using bilinear pairings and threshold cryptography.
</p>

<p align="center">
Drand was first developed within the <a href="https://github.com/dedis">DEDIS
organization</a>, and as of December 2019, is now under the drand organization.
</p>

## Goal and Overview
The need for digital randomness is paramount in multiple digital applications
([e]voting, lottery, cryptographic parameters, embedded devices bootstrapping
randomness, blockchain systems etc) as well in non-digital such as statistical
sampling (used for example to check results of an election), assigning court
cases to random judges, random financial audits, etc.  However, constructing a
secure source of randomness is anything but easy: there are countless examples
of attacks where the randomness generation was the culprit (static keys,
non-uniform distribution, biased output, etc).  drand aims to fix that gap by
providing a Randomness-as-a-Service network (similar to NTP servers for time,
or Certificate Authority servers for CAs verification), providing continuous
source of randomness which is:

* Decentralized: drand is a software ran by a diverse set of reputable entities
  on the Internet and a threshold of them is needed to generate randomness,
  there is no central point of failure.
* Publicly verifiable & unbiased: drand periodically delivers publicly
  verifiable and unbiased randomness. Any third party can fetch and verify the
  authenticity of the randomness and by that making sure it hasn't been
  tampered with.
* And "private" as well: drand nodes can also deliver encrypted randomness
  to be used in a local applications, for example to seed the OS's PRNG.

A drand network is operated by a group of organizations around the world that
includes Cloudflare, EPFL, Kudelski Security, Protocol Labs, Celo, UCL, and
UIUC. You can learn more by visiting the
[League of Entropy website](https://leagueofentropy.com), where you can also
see the random values being generated by the network in real time.
